---
play_number: 1
title: Understand what people need
---

We must begin building solutions by exploring and pinpointing the needs of the people who will use them, and the ways the solution will fit into their lives. Whether the users are members of the public or government employees, we should include real people in our design process from the beginning. The needs of audience should inform technical and design decisions. We need to continually test the solutions we build with real people to keep us honest about what is important.

### Checklist
1. Early in the project, spend time with current and prospective users of the software
2. Use a range of qualitative and quantitative research methods to determine people’s goals, needs, and behaviors; be thoughtful about the time spent
3. Test prototypes of solutions with real people, in the field if possible
4. Document the findings about user goals, needs, behaviors, and preferences
5. Share findings with the team and agency leadership
6. Create a prioritized list of tasks the user is trying to accomplish, also known as "user stories"
7. As the software is being built, regularly test it with potential users to ensure it meets people’s needs

### Key Questions
- Who are your primary users?
- What user needs will this solution address?
- Why does the user want or need this solution?
- Which people will have the most difficulty with the solution?
- Which research methods were used?
- What were the key findings?
- How were the findings documented? Where can future team members access the documentation?
- How often are you testing with real people?
